So let's take a look at
the JavaScript file, first.
All right, in this file we
have a random fetch function.
All this function does, is it creates
a new promise that randomly fails or
succeeds after 2 seconds.
Now remember before over here, when we
were defining a promise state machine,
we said something like on resolve,
go to result.
And we might have something here,
where we say target pending
actions, start fetching or
something like that.
Or we might even have that
action in the entry of pending.
So we could say entry: startFetching.
However, recall that this is
a fire-and-forget action.
It's not expected that this
could return anything.
In fact, if this takes a really long
time and we go to a different state,
then we might get an event when we're
in a completely different state,
where that event might cause
something unexpected to happen.
So in general,
when you are invoking something that might
call the machine back with an event,
you want to invoke it instead.
So here's what invoking looks like.
So invoke is an object that
takes in a source, and
this is what creates the thing
that can be invoked.
Just like everything else in ex-date,
the arguments, passages,
function are the same,
it's context and event.
We're not using context or
events in this particular scenario, so
we could just ignore both of them.
Over here,
we're going to return that promise and
we're going to say,
we're using that promise as a source.
So we call when we return randomFetch.
So this is going to return with either
a message saying the fetch failed, or
a response saying that
the fetch succeeded.
Now there's two other
properties in invoke.
There's onDone and
onDone is just your normal transition so
we could go to resolve over here.
And there's also onError, so
when an error happens,
we go to target rejected.
Now again, this is sugar for
what XState is doing internally,
there's no new concepts here.
Because each of these onDone and onError
is the same thing as having a special
like, done dots invoke dot and
then whatever the name of this invoke is,
so whatever, then we go to result.
So you could just consider both of
those exactly the same thing onDone
is a transition that accepts
an event from this exact source, and
it goes to the state and it could
additionally perform other actions.
In fact over here, let's add an action,
which takes the events and logs it,
just so we see what we're working with.
Okay, let's try this out.
So here I have a special box
it says click to fetch and so
when we click, goes pending and
after two seconds it goes to result.
So let's take a look at
the events that we got back.
Like I said it's a special XState events
we have done invoke machine pending
invocation zero.
This is just a unique identifier for
specifying that exact invocation.
And so we have this data in
the event that the fetch succeeded.
So we could use that, of course,
we might want to fetch again.
So let's go ahead and add transitions and
both resolved and rejected to fetch again.
We could say, onFetch,
go back not idle, pending.
So now you could see, That it goes
to rejected remember, it's random.
So eventually we'll get a result but
you could see that the behavior for
both resolved and rejected is that we
go back to pending, which really works.
Now another interesting thing is that in
this pending states, because we don't
handle the fetch events, it won't do
anything if we try clicking it again.
So that's going to avoid a really common
problem that I see even in software
today where if you click a button
that says submit, your users
might accidentally click in more than one
time, especially if they're frustrated.
And because of that, you're going to get
a lot of unnecessary API requests and
even worse,
some unintended side effects of that.
So if I say console.logFetching,
we see that this fetching
happens only once.
And so we're not handling that
at the event handler level,
now we're handling that at
the state level, and so
that's one way that you could
prevent bugs like that.
So one other thing about invoke
is that whatever is invoked
inside whether it's a promise,
a machine, an observable or a callback,
those will get cancelled and
cleaned up as soon as you leave the state.
So that is a special property of
invocations is that when you leave
pending, this invoke only lasts for
as long as it's in its parent state.
So let's say that we,
we have a cancel event so
on cancel, let's go to idle.
And of course, we need to map this to
something, so let's make a new button.
Let's call it all cancel and
we could say cancel,
cancel equals
document.querySelector(cancel) and
we could create that real quick.
So cancel and then int our HTML,
we could add a cancel button so
we have to say button id = "cancel",
Cancel.
Okay, looks a little bit weird,
but that's okay.
That's what breaks are for, doesn't
quite work here cuz we're using Flexbox.
Anyway, so when we click the fetch,
we can cancel that and
that's not doing anything because
I don't think that, that's right.
So we have an ID, yeah,
we have to save, don't we?
Okay, cool so, you see,
we have canceled that promise.
And the way that this works inside
is that XState is going to
still let the promise happen.
But whatever the result of the promises,
it's just going to discard it.
So that's how cancellation
works in that scenario.
X-rays asks, does it feel like an actor
is something similar to a thunk?
So thunks aren't exactly the same
thing as actors, thunks can be,
thunks a thunk in Redux is a fire and
forget action.
So it's not really related
to actors because you cannot
communicate directly back with a thunk.
A thunk might also, well,
a thunk can dispatch multiple times, but
there's also no concept of cancellation or
a life-cycle of a thunk.
So Johan asks,
an actor can also queue a message,
in the actor model in other
implementations such as Akka or Erlang, or
elixir, Orleans or
any of these other actor models.
Yes, the actors do in fact,
cue messages and then they,
they play them one at a time.
And so that's how they work internally,
your actors can work however they want